so if size matters just imagine what
you'd see if you had a lens the size of
a galaxy well believe it or not galaxies
themselves can actually act as lenses
now this may sound a little bit weird
but I'm actually talking about a very
real phenomenon called gravitational
lensing using the effect astronomers can
create telescopes so big they span the
visible universe gravitational lensing
was first suggested by Einstein and his
general theory of relativity but believe
me you no need to be Einstein to
understand the principle behind it so
we've got a lovely orange tree here and
I want you to imagine that this orange
is a galaxy far far away light-years
from planet Earth
light from our orange tree galaxy is
making its way towards the earth but I
won't need to imagine that in between us
is a huge cosmic body right here so
another giant galaxy or indeed a cluster
of galaxies billions and billions of
stars now you'd think by having it here
it would actually block the light
heading towards the earth but because
it's so massive light is actually bent
around it and even though our orange
galaxy is obscured we can still see it
a giant galaxy like this is so heavy
with such a strong gravitational field
it actually warps the space around it
which makes light Bend on the way
through so the galaxy acts like a lens
revealing and magnifying distant objects
or indeed oranges far beyond this
monstrous gravitational field is acting
just like a lens gathering distorting
and magnifying light from distant
galaxies the whole thing is just like
one big cosmic telescope
you